# wham_equations
## Description
While doing research within the field of biophysics, I noticed that in most published work the convergence algorithms used for the WHAM equations were responsible for the long computing time associated with this method, and that they could be drastically improved. The aim is to create a module using PYTHON with a class of different convergence methods tailored to the WHAM equations for data generated by biased MD simulations, as well as a class for generating biased MD test data for a known PMF.
## Table of Contents
- [Description](#description)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [License](#license)
- [Credits](#credits)
- [Questions](#questions)

## Installation

Just download the python modules and load your own data into them!

  

## Usage

  

Download the modules. The data generator module can be used to create test data for testing the convergence algorithm module or to test your own convergence algorithms! The convergence algorithm module can be used to generate probability distributions for your own biased MD simulations!

  

## Credits

All of the math regarding the WHAM equations and advice on convergence stability came from the following paper:<br/>
J Comput Chem. 2012 February 5; 33(4): 453–465. doi:10.1002/jcc.21989. <br/>
Convergence and error estimation in free energy calculations using the weighted histogram analysis method <br/>
Fangqiang Zhu and Gerhard Hummer 



  
  

## License

  

None

  

## Questions

  
  

Email: cameronpkopp@gmail.com

  

GitHub Link: [https://github.com/cpkopp12](https://github.com/cpkopp12)

  

Contact Instructions: Send me an email!
